TV review: 'Criminal Minds: Suspect Behavior' goes with its gut - Los Angeles Times Business California Climate & Environment Entertainment & Arts En Español Food Housing & Homelessness Image Lifestyle Obituaries Opinion Politics Science Sports Travel & Experiences World & Nation All Sections _________________ Newsletters Photography Podcasts Video _________________ About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip?
L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store LA Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance & Permissions Short Docs About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip?
L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store LA Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance & Permissions Short Docs Advertising Place an Ad Classifieds Coupons People on the Move Find/Post Jobs Local Ads Marketplace Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times?
Hot Property Sections Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Place an Ad Classifieds Coupons People on the Move Find/Post Jobs Local Ads Marketplace Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times?
Hot Property Sections Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Bestcovery B2B Publishing Business Visionaries Hot Property Crossword & Games L.A. Times Events L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students & Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students & Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms Special Supplements Best of the Southland Healthy Living Las Vegas Guide Best of the Southland Healthy Living Las Vegas Guide Copyright © 2022, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell My Personal Information Sections California Entertainment Sports Food Climate Image Opinion | Bestcovery Coupons Crossword eNewspaper Show SearchSearch Query Submit Search Advertisement FacebookTwitterShow more sharing optionsShareClose extra sharing options Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Copy Link URLCopied!Print Television TV review: ‘Criminal Minds: Suspect Behavior’ goes with its gut By Mary McNamara, Los Angeles Times Television Critic Feb. 16, 2011 12 AM PT FacebookTwitterShow more sharing optionsShareClose extra sharing options Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Copy Link URLCopied!Print There is, no doubt, a women’s studies dissertation to be written on the recent co-optation of intuition by male crime-fighters on television.
Once dismissed as a woman’s poor substitute for fact-based logic, intuition has become the latest super-power.
House has it, as does “The Mentalist’s” Patrick Jane.
“Lie to Me’s” Cal Lightman is a doctor of it, Richard Castle wields the novelist’s version, and on “Criminal Minds,” the FBI has assembled a whole team of Miss Marples who may throw around psychological tendencies and criminal profiles but spend most of their time looking at crime scenes and wondering, “what was he thinking?” And now there’s another one.
If we concede the need for a “Criminal Minds” spinoff, and I suppose we must if only because the ratings for the original are so high, “Criminal Minds: Suspect Behavior,” which premieres Wednesday on CBS, does nothing to put the brand to shame.
Like its father-ship, “Criminal Minds: Suspect Behavior” has recruited a remarkable cast, including Forest Whitaker and Janeane Garofalo, whose characters solve absurdly creepy crimes in an absurdly short amount of time through the use of psychological clichés — “she’s sending a message,” “he’s done this before” — and the keyboard talents of Penelope Garcia (Kirsten Vangsness), the Computer Who Wore Head Bows.
With a completely straight face, she cross-references registered sex offenders with blue-paneled van drivers and voilà: a registered sex offender who drives a blue-paneled van and works the story-telling hour at the local library.
That a library does not appear to have access to the state’s sex offender website is alarming, but no matter, because we’re Moving On.Advertisement “Criminal Minds: Suspect Behavior” has the same rapid pace of the original, a narrative tool that both amps up the action and keeps the viewer from dwelling too much on the gargantuan leaps of imagination that pass for police work.
It also works against the show, preventing it from fully making the insightful points it does have.
In the pilot, we meet Sam Cooper (Whitaker) and his team when they are summoned to find a girl gone missing from a wealthy white suburb.
When Sam’s No.
2, Beth Griffith (Garofalo), learns that a black girl of the same age also recently went missing, she is outraged by the difference in response.
The white girl gets an elite team from the FBI’s feminine intuition, er, Behavioral Analysis Unit; the black girl’s mother is reduced to putting up posters and crashing another abductee’s crime scene.
This is an excellent point of departure for a procedural hoping to be something more, but it is dropped moments after being introduced (though Sam will help find the black girl, especially when it turns out that one crime is simply ancillary to the other).
Instead, way too much time is spent on a ridiculous sub-plot involving John “Prophet” Sims (Michael Kelly) who is on probation for killing a pedophile because, you know, pedophiles make him So Angry.
Sam, pained and soulful, is the team’s secret weapon, figuring out what demons drive the criminal by putting himself literally and psychically at the crime scene.
He is aided by Penelope’s database miracles, but he is portrayed as a human dowsing rod, wired to understand the criminal mind.
The second episode, in which the crime is so creepy it’s silly, offers some hint of character development, with Beth trying to figure Sam out.
It would be a shame to waste the talents of Whitaker and Garofalo in a weekly game of sociopathic “Blue’s Clues,” but they are both actors who can do a lot with a little so maybe it will turn out all right.
Given the network’s success rate with spinoffs (two “NCIS’,” three “CSIs”), “Criminal Minds: Suspect Behavior” probably has a lot more time to get it right than actual detectives ever do.mary.mcnamara@latimes.com Television Newsletter The complete guide to home viewing Get Screen Gab for everything about the TV shows and streaming movies everyone’s talking about.
Enter email address Sign Me Up You may occasionally receive promotional content from the Los Angeles Times.
Mary McNamara Follow Us Twitter Instagram Email Facebook Mary McNamara is a culture columnist and critic for the Los Angeles Times.
Previously she was assistant managing editor for arts and entertainment following a 12-year stint as television critic and senior culture editor.
A Pulitzer Prize winner in 2015 and finalist for criticism in 2013 and 2014, she has won various awards for criticism and feature writing.
She is the author of the Hollywood mysteries “Oscar Season” and “The Starlet.” She lives in La Crescenta with her husband, three children and two dogs.
More From the Los Angeles Times Television For Round 2, Kanye West assures Tucker Carlson: ‘I will eventually be president’ Television With KTLA drama behind her, the countdown is on for Lynette Romero’s KNBC debut Television For the Hernandez brothers, ‘Love and Rockets’ evokes real life through art Television How CBS turned Northern California ‘Fire Country’ into a soap opera with pyrotechnics Subscribers Are Reading In leaked audio, L.A. council members make racist remarks, mock colleagues For Subscribers 8 tranquil hot springs in California to heal your weary soul L.A. Times electoral endorsements for November 2022 Plaschke: Dorian Thompson-Robinson once again proves he’s the best college QB in L.A. Coronavirus subvariant BA.2.75.2 appears in L.A. County.
How worried should we be?
Advertisement Latest Television Television Hollywood misogyny ‘broke’ Eve Hewson.
It took a killer role to put her right Television Kanye West tells Tucker Carlson that his Trump support ‘threatened’ his life and career Company Town CNN’s Jim Sciutto is taking a personal leave of absence from the network Company Town Frank Biondi ran Viacom and built Nickelodeon, and now his daughter is helping to tell his story Entertainment & Arts Jada Pinkett Smith writing memoir about life, ‘complicated marriage to Will Smith’ AdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisement AdvertisementAdvertisement Subscribe for unlimited access Follow Us Twitter Instagram YouTube Facebook eNewspaper Coupons Find/Post Jobs Place an Ad Media Kit: Why the L. A.
Times?
Bestcovery Crossword Sudoku Obituaries Recipes L.A. Times Store Wine Club About/Contact For the Record L.A. Times Careers Manage Subscription Reprints and Permissions Site Map Copyright © 2022, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell My Personal Information
