


 Have you been watching … Criminal Minds? | Television & radio | theguardian.com 
















































































Turn autoplay off
Turn autoplay on


Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off




Jump to content [s]
Jump to comments [c]
Jump to site navigation [0]
Jump to search [4]
Terms and conditions [8]




Edition:
UK
US
AU



 About us 

 About us, 
 Contact us 
 Press office 
 Guardian Print Centre 
 Guardian readers' editor 
 Observer readers' editor 
 Terms of service 
 Privacy policy 
 Advertising guide 
 Digital archive 
 Digital edition 
 Guardian Weekly 
 Buy Guardian and Observer photos 





 Today's paper 

 Main section 
 G2 features 
 Comment and debate 
 Editorials, letters and corrections 
 Obituaries 
 Other lives 
 Sport 
 Film & music 
 Subscribe 



 Subscribe 










 Home 
 UK 
 World 
 Sport 
 Football 
 Opinion 
 Culture 
 Economy 
 Lifestyle 
 Fashion 
 Environment 
 Tech 
 Travel 
 Money 




  Culture  
  Television & radio  
  Crime drama  







    






 Next 
 Previous 
 Blog home 


Have you been watching … Criminal Minds?

       It's sometimes formulaic and everybody's way too good-looking, but this FBI procedural still fantastic viewing
      







        So good it's criminal... Criminal Minds' Hotchner, Prentiss and Rossi. Photograph: Ron P Jaffe/CBS
       


Law & Order, Cold Case, NCIS, the 190 different versions of CSI… I've always loved a legal/cop procedural. Someone breaks the law, a crack team does whatever it is they do, they nail the sonofabitch, the credits roll.
They might not be especially profound or groundbreaking, but they are clever, inventive and hugely entertaining. I love them all. But my favourite has to be Criminal Minds. Yes, it's sometimes formulaic and not completely believable and everybody's way too good-looking. Doesn't matter. It's still fantastic viewing.



I've been a fan since it debuted in 2005 and my ardour is only deepening. From the start it's been pacy, witty and exciting – with twisty plotlines, thoughtful subtexts and great characters. The show follows the FBI's Behavioural Analysis Unit as they track down serial killers, terrorists and other dangerous threats to society. They study pathology, run statistics, cross-check patterns and utilise all the tools of modern crime fighting. But they also lean on intuition and experience.
And Criminal Minds is getting better with each season. Earlier episodes sometimes felt a little gimmicky, almost like the show didn't trust its own ability to hook the viewer without ladling on shock turns. But it's progressively become more authentic: deeper, more contemplative and multilayered. The characters are properly believable. Even the geek-cool genius Dr Reid, who could be a cartoon in less skilful hands, is fully fleshed out by excellent writing, pacing and acting.
Indeed the balance of characters in Criminal Minds, up to last year, was as good as it gets in ensemble TV: decent, intense team leader Hotchner; grumpy old owl Rossi; sweet-natured Jareau; wry, intelligent Prentiss; and my favourite, Garcia, a Day-Glo, hyperactive brew of pop culture nerd, emo girl, earth mother and computer whizz.
Season six, which is now airing on Living, has seen Jareau ditched for some perplexing reason, and the appearances of Prentiss reduced. But the remaining characters are still as strong as ever, served by sharp writing and directing. Some episodes, particularly two-parters and season finales/openers, are as deftly constructed, fiendishly plotted and thrillingly, irresistibly enjoyable as anything on television.
Oddly I didn't really enjoy the recent Grim Reaper season opener: Tim Curry was too cartoonish, with his rotting teeth and random, implausible pathology. And they bolted on a sentimental back-story to explain this evil monster, which was out of character for Criminal Minds: the killers here aren't tortured, charming or brilliant. They're creeps and predators and losers… like in real life.
But Season six has since settled into the groove nicely, with two excellent subsequent episodes rinsing out memories of Toothy Tim. JJ had a tense plot, almost like a play, centred on two Leopold and Loeb types, and a touching denouement as the titular Agent took her leave, while last Friday Remembrance Of Things Past was gruelling and gruesome, and scarier than usual, with the team tracking down a killer come out of retirement – a residual nightmare from Rossi's past.
With its torture chamber and double-team of sadistic "hunters", it drifted towards horror, but retained enough warmth, good humour and brisk intelligence to remind us why we love the show, and whet our appetites for more.
Criminal Minds might require a certain suspension of disbelief – they (almost) always get their man. But I can live with that. Because Criminal Minds is also genre storytelling of a superior quality.
But maybe that's just me. What do you think? Will the loss of JJ unbalance the programme? Are they running out of original plots about serial killers? And what about the forthcoming Forrest Whitaker spin-off? Let us know …
• Criminal Minds is on Fridays at 9pm on Living TV




 Next 
 Previous 
 Blog home 


 




 



 


       We have switched off comments on this old version of the site. To comment on crosswords, please 
      switch over to the new version to comment. 
      Read more...
 



  Hot topics  


 TV reviews 
 The X Factor 
 Mad Men 
 Doctor Who 





 License/buy our content  | 
       Privacy policy  | 
       Terms & conditions  | 
       Advertising guide  | 
       Accessibility  | 
       A-Z index  | 
       Inside the Guardian blog  | 
       About us  | 
       Work for us  | 
       Join our dating site today 


© 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.


















