










 























Criminal Minds Season 3 Recap












































screenrant.com

















SR Exclusives


Movie News


TV News


Reviews


Interviews


Tech


Gaming


Game News


Game Features


Game Guides


Game Reviews




More


Trailers


Lists


Podcasts


Top Movies


Comics


Horror


Reality TV


WWE


Anime


Buyer's Guides


Advertise with Us


Privacy Policy






Follow Us


Follow ScreenRant
















Something New



                	The go-to source for comic book and superhero movie fans.
                




                	All the latest gaming news, game reviews and trailers.
                




                	Movie News, Movie Trailers & upcoming Movie Reviews
                




                	The Leading Source for Gaming News, Reviews, and Interviews
                

























 Home TV News Criminal Minds Season 3 Recap  

Criminal Minds Season 3 Recap
By
 Bruce Simmons 

Published Sep 23, 2008

  Share
Share
Tweet
Share
Share
Share
Email

           



Criminal Minds packed quite a few developments into the season 3 finale, and with season 4 just about to begin here's a bit of a recap and analysis of the show.


The BAU (Bahavioral Analysis Unit) headed to New York to deal with what appeared to be random killings. Random was not what they were.

The murders were actually coordinated strikes gauging the law enforcement response tactics. Perfectly calculated tests while the un-subs watched.

In the meantime, Derek has a possible promotion available to him and Jennifer Jareau is pregnant. (The actress, A.J. Cook was really pregnant. She learned about it while on the set of her movie, Misconception, a movie about a surrogate mother. Trippy.)

The show comes at us with one heck of a mind bender. We're watching different team members at the end of the day, as their evening comes to a close, they're all getting into their black SUV's and one of them explodes. (One of the SUV's, not the characters!)

To me, it looks like one of the team has just been hit, and my feeling is that the terrorists were not just testing the police agencies response time, but possibly, the whole thing was a lure for one of the BAU agents. But that's just my take.

According to TV Guide, the season premiere is pretty good and someone bids farewell to the team. That's all I'm gonna give you because I think it will be better to be surprised with cool new things. The only other thing I would pass on is if you've seen any of the previews, don't be misled!

Bruce's Observations:

Last season, they started presenting the Criminal Minds episodes from a new perspective. Previously, we'd watch the BAU pursue the un-sub (Unknown Subject) and then they would zero in on their quarry. Last season, they started showing both sides of the equation. The un-sub as he went about his business, and the team pursuing his clues. It took some of the fun out of wondering who or what, but they made up for it with decent character interaction and development, and there were many last season.

Too many to even try to touch on. Criminal Minds stars Thomas Gibson, Joe Mantegna, Shemar Moore, and Matthew Gray Gubler. Season 4 starts September 24, on CBS.

Source:  TV Guide



 
















Jake Lacy & Lio Tipton Interview: A Friend of the Family

Read Next




Share



Share



Tweet



Share



Share



Share



Email



Related Topics

TV News
Criminal Minds

 


About The Author





Bruce Simmons
                            (449 Articles Published)




Owner of Stuff on BruSimm (SoB), where we chat about science fiction and fantasy television, NASCAR and Consumer affairs.

More From Bruce Simmons






Close














Popular Now



















RHOBH: Signs Kyle Richards & Kathy Hilton Are Still Feuding



















MCU Phase 4 May Have Just Teased Canada’s Avengers Team



















Deadpool 3’s Plot Might Have Already Been Revealed In 2021





















90 Day Fiancé Fans Call Out Debbie's Boyfriend Tony's Problematic Tattoos



















One Piece Concept Art Already Revealed Dr. Vegapunk's True Body Long Ago



















Why Elsa Wants The Bloodstone In Werewolf By Night






Movie Reviews
Movie Trailers






















Luckiest Girl Alive Review: Mila Kunis Carries Tepid Adaption Of Intense Story





















Bromates Review: Crandall’s Outlandish Comedy Struggles To Bring The Laughs





















MK Ultra Review: Joseph Sorrentino's CIA Thriller Is Detailed & Effective





















Hellraiser Review: New Pinhead Shines In Sturdy But Fairly Safe Remake





















The Visitor Review: A Horror Movie With An Identity Crisis





















Some Like It Rare Review: French Dark Comedy Is Entertaining & Absurd



See More




















The Lair Trailer Reveals The Descent Director's Return To Horror Movies



















Super Mario Bros. Trailer Reveals Chris Pratt's Voice, Bowser & Luigi



















Jennifer Lawrence Goes Back To Her Drama Roots In Causeway Trailer



















David Harbour Is A Killer Santa In The Violent Night Trailer 



















The Computer Accent Explores Beautiful Music With AI [EXCLUSIVE TRAILER]



















Shotgun Wedding Trailer: Jennifer Lopez’s New Rom-Com Has A Wild Twist



See More






trending now



















Big Brother: Why Fans Are Accusing Paloma Of Lying In Interviews



















Lord Of The Rings: 10 Unpopular Opinions About Gandalf, According To Reddit



















Genshin Impact 3.2: Biggest Layla Leaks & Rumors









Read Next



















Ximena Morales' Cozy Photos With Elderly Man Shock 90 Day Fiancé Fans



















How to Avoid Alerting Cops in Serial Cleaners



















Is The Electrify America HomeStation Charger Worth The Buy?




















The Boys: The Deep Pays Tribute To Timothy The Octopus In Funny Video



















LOTR Makes Durin & Disa Hard To Root For In The Rings Of Power



















How To Get Coconuts in Disney Dreamlight Valley




















Breakdown Of Georgina Stanton's Twist & Secret In The Midnight Club



















Zelda’s Water Dungeons Always Have The Best Bosses



















Daredevil's Mentor Can Clear Up MCU's Born Again Continuity Questions












Write For Us
Home
Contact Us
Terms
Privacy
Copyright
About Us
Press Kit
Fact Checking Policy
Corrections Policy
Ethics Policy
Ownership Policy





		Copyright © 2022 screenrant.com
	
















