





How The Criminal Minds Spinoff Will Replace Anna Gunn | Cinemablend










































































































         







Skip to main content












Cinemablend








Cinemablend 

 

Search

 





 




 

 

 

 

USUKAustraliaCanada







 



Movies




TV




News




Streaming




Superheroes




Reviews




Voices




Videos




Wrestling




Theme Parks




Features




Deals




Podcasts




Trailers




Interviews




3D




Star Wars




Game of Thrones




About Us






 


 


TrendingAdam LevineTrevor Noah exitHouse of the DragonThe Ayer CutHellraiser

Cinemablend is supported by its audience. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s why you can trust us.












Home
Television


How The Criminal Minds Spinoff Will Replace Anna Gunn


 By Jessica Rawden  published 28 May 2015






  (opens in new tab)



  (opens in new tab)



  (opens in new tab)


























CBS is officially bringing the Criminal Minds spinoff Beyond Borders to series next TV season, following the successful backdoor pilot that aired on the network during an episode of Criminal Minds this spring. However, despite the perceived success of the episode we’ve seen, Criminal Minds: Beyond Borders is moving forward without series lead Anna Gunn. CBS head Nina Tassler says the network plans to fill the gap left by Gunn in the coming months:Gary [Sinise] is sort of larger than life and [as Jack Garrett] he filled a lot of the same [needs as Gunn’s character]. But we’re actually going to be adding a couple of new characters... [that] speak more to the needs of the franchise.What’s most interesting about Tassler’s comment is not that Beyond Borders has plans to replace Gunn. It’s that Tassler says that Gary Sinise’s Jack Garrett fulfilled pretty much the same role as Gunn on the show. When CBS picked up Criminal Minds: Beyond Borders to series at the beginning of the month, the network simply cut Gunn out of the announcement. At least, now we’re getting some frame of reference for why she is not moving forward with the rest of the team as the project moves to series.While Tassler’s note to TV Line doesn’t actually say who the drama is moving forward with in Gunn’s place, one would have to assume that the “new characters” will at least include a couple of females. So far, CSI: NY’s Gary Sinise, The Walking Dead’s Tyler James Williams and Big Hero 6’s Daniel Henney are the big names confirmed for the series, which didn’t even make CBS’ fall schedule. At least the network will have some time to find a lineup that will work.Criminal Minds is a pretty hot franchise for CBS, but the last time the network attempted a spinoff, it didn’t go so well. Back in 2011, the network put together Criminal Minds: Suspect Behavior, which also featured a well-known cast and a similar premise to the original. That one didn’t end up working so well, as Suspect Behavior was cancelled at the end of the TV season. Obviously, CBS doesn’t want another failed spinoff on its hands and is taking measures to make sure Criminal Minds: Beyond Borders works for fans, even if that means no Anna Gunn.Beyond Borders isn’t the only series in the franchise that needs to fill out its cast. Jennifer Love Hewitt has also left Criminal Minds and will need to be replaced before Season 11 hits the schedule next fall. In the meantime, here’s what the network has coming up this summer.

Jessica RawdenManaging EditorReality TV fan with a pinch of Disney fairy dust thrown in. Theme park junkie. If you’ve created a rom-com I’ve probably watched it.





































CINEMABLEND NEWSLETTER



Your Daily Blend of Entertainment News









Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands





Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors











Thank you for signing up to CinemaBlend. You will receive a verification email shortly.


There was a problem. Please refresh the page and try again.


By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions (opens in new tab) and Privacy Policy (opens in new tab) and are aged 16 or over.














MOST READ1Chris Hemsworth Jokes He 'Worked Out A Little Less' For New Thor Movie In Funny Post With An Intact Mjolnir 2Community's Dan Harmon Discusses The Possibility Of Donald Glover Returning For The Peacock Movie3Bestselling Romance Novel Inspired By Fanfiction About Star Wars' Rey And Kylo Ren Is Becoming A Movie4Why Jaeden Martell's IT History Didn't Specifically Impact His Role In New Stephen King Adaptation Mr. Harrigan's Phone5Fire Country Cast: Where You’ve Seen The Actors Before
















Cinemablend is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab).


Terms and conditions (opens in new tab)
Privacy policy (opens in new tab)
Cookies policy (opens in new tab)
Accessibility statement
Careers (opens in new tab)
2022 new movie releases (opens in new tab)
2022 netflix premiere schedule (opens in new tab)
2022 tv and streaming premiere (opens in new tab)
Marvel movies in order (opens in new tab)
Movies (opens in new tab)
TV (opens in new tab)
Stay in & stream (opens in new tab)
Heroes (opens in new tab)
Upcoming (opens in new tab)
Reviews (opens in new tab)
To 3d or not to 3d (opens in new tab)
About us (opens in new tab)
FAQ (opens in new tab)
Jobs (opens in new tab)
Contact (opens in new tab)
Archives (opens in new tab)


©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 


 











 





 
