










 























Criminal Minds Premiere: Review & Discussion












































screenrant.com

















SR Exclusives


Movie News


TV News


Reviews


Interviews


Tech


Gaming


Game News


Game Features


Game Guides


Game Reviews




More


Trailers


Lists


Podcasts


Top Movies


Comics


Horror


Reality TV


WWE


Anime


Buyer's Guides


Advertise with Us


Privacy Policy






Follow Us


Follow ScreenRant
















Something New



                	The go-to source for comic book and superhero movie fans.
                




                	All the latest gaming news, game reviews and trailers.
                




                	Movie News, Movie Trailers & upcoming Movie Reviews
                




                	The Leading Source for Gaming News, Reviews, and Interviews
                

























 Home TV News Criminal Minds Premiere: Review & Discussion  

Criminal Minds Premiere: Review & Discussion
By
 Anthony Ocasio 

Published Sep 25, 2009

  Share
Share
Tweet
Share
Share
Share
Email

           



At the end of Criminal Minds last season, the BAU was searching for a serial killer called "The Reaper." "The Reaper" forced the team from Detroit to Canada in an attempt to apprehend him, but he continued to elude all attempts from the BAU and ultimately attacks Morgan (Shemar Moore), stealing his credentials. As the season finale concluded, we were left with Hotchner (Thomas Gibson) standing face to face with "The Reaper" and as the episode faded to black, we were left with a singular sound; a gunshot.


Join us as I recap the season 5 premiere for criminal minds...

Recap

As the episode  "Faceless, Nameless" opens, we're met with sirens as the BAU arrives on the scene of a crime. While we, the audience, are led to believe they're at the location of Hotchner's altercation with "The Reaper," we soon find out that it's the residence of a murder victim and a new case for this episode. Hotchner is still MIA at this moment, but it's the BAU's day off so no one was too worried. The new case involves a local doctor who received a threatening letter from someone stating that he is going to kill his son. As the episode goes on, we learn that the threat wasn't towards the son, but the doctor, and that it was from an angry parent who blames the doctor for his child dying. In a confrontation between the doctor and the unsub, Reid gets shot in the leg and the unsub receives a bullet in stomach.  This case is wrapped a little over half-way through the episode which leaves time to tackle the Hotchner story.

While working on the doctor case, Prentiss (Paget Brewster) feels they need Hotchner's help and drives to his apartment in an attempt to find him. As she arrives there is no response. She attempts to call his cell phone and it rings inside. Knowing something is up, she kicks in the door and finds broken glass, blood and a gunshot hole in the wall. After calling Garcia (Kirsten Vangsness) and Reid (Matthew Gray Gubler) for help, Prentiss vows them not to inform the rest of the team as they need to stay focused. Garcia ends up calling local hospitals and finds that a "Derek Morgan" had dropped off someone last night. As Prentiss arrives at the hospital, she finds Hotchner in stable condition after being stabbed nine times and they "The Reaper" had dropped Hotchner off using the credentials he stole from Morgan.

          



After finishing the previous case, the team arrives at the hospital where Hotchner realizes that "The Reaper" took his ex-wife's address and is going after his son. As the BAU arrive at her house, they find his ex-wife safe and that his son is staying at a friend's house. Morgan quickly retrieves him, but with a threat on his family, they're put in protective custody where Hotchner can have no contact with them.

"The Reaper's" plan was not the kill Hotchner, but to cause him continuous pain by not allowing him to see his son. With a confident comment from Rossi (Joe Mantegna) that "we'll catch him," the episode comes to an end.

          



Review

While I wasn't too happy at first about them starting a new case instead of jumping right into the more important Hotchner storyline, I ultimately came around. I enjoyed the fact that the new case was abbreviated, but still felt complete. I also liked how they connected Hotchner to the other case and that ultimately finding him gave them information to solve the previous case.

The whole angle about Hotcher never being able to see his son again was pretty intense. I can't believe they went in that direction with it. It's something I wasn't expecting it at all. I hope that "The Reaper" storyline will continue and conclude this season (not drawn out) and not just something they used as a way to write his ex-wife and son off the show. While I don't really enjoy the actor who plays "The Reaper," I enjoy what they have written around the character and since we don't see "The Reaper" character enough, it doesn't make a difference.

I still miss Mandy Patikin on this show and wasn't too happy that this was a very Garcia-light episode. Still, it was enjoyable and has me interested on what's to come next.

Now that you've read my ramblings, how do you feel? Do you like where they took "The Reaper" storyline? What do you think is going to happen?

Discuss!



 
















The Penguins In Super Mario Bros Reveal A Great Thing About The Movie

Read Next




Share



Share



Tweet



Share



Share



Share



Email



Related Topics

TV News
Criminal Minds

 


About The Author





Anthony Ocasio
                            (1071 Articles Published)




As Screen Rant's television editor, Anthony gets yelled at by fans of every television show on the air. It's not his fault that your favorite show is terrible. Kidding! (kind of) 

e-mail: anthony@screenrant.com
Twitter: @anthonyocasio

More From Anthony Ocasio






Close














Popular Now



















Transformers Has To Keep 1 Thing That Bumblebee Did Better Than Bay



















The MCU Might Continue WandaVision's Worst Dropped Plot



















The Conners Season 5 Finally Gives Becky A Real Story 





















Every God Kratos Has Killed Before God Of War Ragnarök



















One My Hero Academia Student Holds the Secret to Ending Shigaraki



















Ronny Chieng's Film & TV Roles: Where You Know Young Rock's Greg Yao






Movie Reviews
Movie Trailers






















Luckiest Girl Alive Review: Mila Kunis Carries Tepid Adaption Of Intense Story





















Bromates Review: Crandall’s Outlandish Comedy Struggles To Bring The Laughs





















MK Ultra Review: Joseph Sorrentino's CIA Thriller Is Detailed & Effective





















Hellraiser Review: New Pinhead Shines In Sturdy But Fairly Safe Remake





















The Visitor Review: A Horror Movie With An Identity Crisis





















Some Like It Rare Review: French Dark Comedy Is Entertaining & Absurd



See More




















The Lair Trailer Reveals The Descent Director's Return To Horror Movies



















Super Mario Bros. Trailer Reveals Chris Pratt's Voice, Bowser & Luigi



















Jennifer Lawrence Goes Back To Her Drama Roots In Causeway Trailer



















David Harbour Is A Killer Santa In The Violent Night Trailer 



















The Computer Accent Explores Beautiful Music With AI [EXCLUSIVE TRAILER]



















Shotgun Wedding Trailer: Jennifer Lopez’s New Rom-Com Has A Wild Twist



See More






trending now



















Ximena Morales' Cozy Photos With Elderly Man Shock 90 Day Fiancé Fans



















DWTS: Carrie Ann Inaba Reveals Which Contestants She Wants For All-Stars



















One Piece Concept Art Already Revealed Dr. Vegapunk's True Body Long Ago









Read Next



















Every Monster Made MCU Canon In Werewolf By Night 



















10 MCU Movies That Leaned Too Far Into Comedy, According To Reddit



















Genshin Impact 3.2: Biggest Layla Leaks & Rumors




















Secret Invasion: 10 Heroes The Skrulls Replaced In The Comics



















10 Best Disaster Movies (According To Letterboxd)



















How Tears Of The Kingdom Can Bring Back Zelda's Most Iconic Item




















Breakdown Of Georgina Stanton's Twist & Secret In The Midnight Club



















Young Sheldon's Season 6 Mary Plot Makes George’s Death So Much Sadder



















Why Dolph Lundgren Was Rejected As Jack Reacher (Despite Being Perfect)












Write For Us
Home
Contact Us
Terms
Privacy
Copyright
About Us
Press Kit
Fact Checking Policy
Corrections Policy
Ethics Policy
Ownership Policy





		Copyright © 2022 screenrant.com
	
















